Add helm3 install doc (#4429)
projectcalico/calico: getting-started/kubernetes/helm.md

---

> title: Installing Calico with Helm on Kubernetes

Reviewer: Install Calico using Helm on Kubernetes

Author: ```suggestion
title: Install Calico using Helm
```

description: Install Calico on a Kubernetes cluster using Helm 3.
canonical_url: '/getting-started/kubernetes/helm'
---

### Big picture

> This installs Calico on a Kubernetes cluster using Helm 3.

Author: ```suggestion
Install {{site.prodname}} on a Kubernetes cluster using Helm 3.
```

### Value

> Helm charts are a way to package up an application for Kubernetes.  This can be thought of as similar to the way `apt` or `yum` packages applications for operating systems.  

Reviewer: Helm charts are a way to package up an application for Kubernetes (similar to the way `apt` or `yum` packages applications for operating systems).  Helm is also used by tools like ArgoCD to manage applications in a cluster, taking care of install, upgrade (and rollback if needed), etc.

Author: ```suggestion
Helm charts are a way to package up an application for Kubernetes (similar to `apt` or `yum` for operating systems). Helm is also used by tools like ArgoCD to manage applications in a cluster, taking care of install, upgrade (and rollback if needed), etc.
```

Helm is also used by tools like ArgoCD to manage applications in a cluster, taking care of install, upgrade (and rollback if needed), etc. 

### Before you begin

> 

Reviewer: **Required**

- Helm 3 is installed on the cluster.
- Kubernetes cluster meets these requirements:
  - Kubernetes installed, but *without* a CNI plugin **OR** a cluster running a compatible CNI for Calico to run in policy-only mode 
  - x86-64, arm64, ppc64le, or s390x processors
  - RedHat Enterprise Linux 7.x+, CentOS 7.x+, Ubuntu 16.04+, or Debian 9.x+

- `kubeconfig` is configured to work with your cluster (check by running `kubectl get nodes`)

- {{site.prodname}} can manage `cali` and `tunl` interfaces on the hosts.
  If NetworkManager is present on the hosts, refer to
  [Configure NetworkManager](../../maintenance/troubleshoot/troubleshooting#configure-networkmanager).

- Install Helm 3.

> - Make sure you have a kubernetes cluster that meets the following requirements:

Reviewer: Kubernetes

> 
> - Install Helm 3.
> 
> - Make sure you have a kubernetes cluster that meets the following requirements:
>   - kubernetes installed, but currently *without* a CNI plugin **OR** a cluster running a compatible CNI for Calico to run in policy-only mode 
>   - x86-64, arm64, ppc64le, or s390x processors
>   - RedHat Enterprise Linux 7.x+, CentOS 7.x+, Ubuntu 16.04+, or Debian 9.x+
> 
> - Configure `kubeconfig` to work with your cluster (check by running `kubectl get nodes`)
> 
> - Ensure that {{site.prodname}} can manage `cali` and `tunl` interfaces on the hosts.
>   If NetworkManager is present on the hosts, refer to
>   [Configure NetworkManager](../../maintenance/troubleshoot/troubleshooting#configure-networkmanager).

Author: ```suggestion
**Required**

- Install Helm 3
- Kubernetes cluster meets these requirements:
  - Kubernetes is installed *without* a CNI plugin **OR** cluster is running a compatible CNI for Calico to run in policy-only mode 
  - x86-64, arm64, ppc64le, or s390x processors
  - RedHat Enterprise Linux 7.x+, CentOS 7.x+, Ubuntu 16.04+, or Debian 9.x+
- `kubeconfig` is configured to work with your cluster (check by running `kubectl get nodes`)
- {{site.prodname}} can manage `cali` and `tunl` interfaces on the hosts.
  If NetworkManager is present on the hosts, refer to
  [Configure NetworkManager](../../maintenance/troubleshoot/troubleshooting#configure-networkmanager).
```

### Concepts

#### Operator based installation

> This guide uses Helm 3 to install the Tigera operator which will install {{site.prodname}}. The operator provides lifecycle management for Calico

Reviewer: This guide uses Helm 3 to install the Tigera operator to install {{site.prodname}}. The operator provides lifecycle management for {{site.prodname}}, and is
exposed via the Kubernetes API and defined as a custom resource definition.

Author: ```suggestion
In this guide, you install the Tigera {{site.prodname}} operator and custom resource definitions using the Helm 3 chart. The Tigera operator provides lifecycle management for {{site.prodname}} exposed via the Kubernetes API.
```

exposed via the Kubernetes API defined as a custom resource definition.

### How to

> #### Download the helm chart

Author: ```suggestion
#### Download the Helm chart
```

1. Go to the Calico [releases page](https://github.com/projectcalico/calico/releases) and find the release you want to install.

> 1. Download the chart from the release artifacts.  It will have a name like: `tigera-operator-{{page.version}}.0-1.tgz`

Reviewer 2: You could probably use the actual expected helm name here:
```suggestion
1. Download the chart from the release artifacts.  It will have a name like: `tigera-operator-{{site.versions[0].title}}-{{site.versions[0].chart.version}}.tgz`
```
Could even provide a download link.

Though this will be incorrect for master since master must use `v0.0`. Perhaps put it in an include statement which accounts for master?

Author: > Could even provide a download link.
I like that idea.  Will see what I can do.

> #### Create a Helm Customization

Author: ```suggestion
#### Customize the Helm chart
```

> 

Reviewer: If you are installing on a cluster installed by EKS, GKE, AKS, Openshift or Docker Enterprise, or you need to customize TLS certificates, you must customize this Helm chart.  

Otherwise, you can skip this step.

Author: ```suggestion
If you are installing on a cluster installed by EKS, GKE, AKS, Openshift or Docker Enterprise, or you need to customize TLS certificates, you must customize this Helm chart.

Otherwise, you can skip this step.
```

If you are installing on a cluster installed by EKS, GKE, AKS, Openshift or Docker Enterprise, you will need to customise this Helm chart.  

You might also need to do this if you want to customise TLS certificates.

Otherwise, this part can be skipped.

> 1. Run `helm show values tigera-operator-{{page.version}}.0-1.tgz` to see the values that can be customised in the chart

Reviewer: in the chart. (period)

Author: ```suggestion
1. Run `helm show values tigera-operator-{{page.version}}.0-1.tgz` to see the values in the chart.
```

Author: ```suggestion
1. Run `helm show values tigera-operator-{{page.version}}.0-1.tgz` to see the values that can be customised in the chart.
```

> 1. Create a `calico-config.yaml` file based on the output of `helm show values tigera-operator-{{page.version}}.0-1.tgz`.  

Reviewer 2: I've never been a fan of this approach. When you run any program, you don't explicitly set every single value to it's default value. So why would you do this here? You prevent yourself from picking up defaults if they're adjusted in the future. And you don't  have a simple path during upgrades to merge your adjustments with any new config that is added.

Author: I'm a helm noob, what's the correct way to do this that avoids the pitfalls you describe here?

> 1. If you are installing on a cluster installed by EKS, GKE, AKS, Openshift or Docker Enterprise, set the `kubernetesProvider` as described in the [Installation reference](../../reference/installation/api#operator.tigera.io/v1.Provider)

Reviewer 2: I believe this is only required for Openshift thanks to auto-detection. But I could be wrong...

Author: We don't have tests to prove that autodetection works at this point.  Is it not safer to specify this value here?  We can remove it later once we're sure autodetection works.

#### Install {{site.prodname}}

1. Install the Tigera {{site.prodname}} operator and custom resource definitions using the Helm chart:

   ```
   helm install tigera-operator-{{page.version}}.0-1.tgz --generate-name 
   ```
   or if you created a `calico-config.yaml` above:
   ```
   helm install -f calico-config.yaml tigera-operator-{{page.version}}.0-1.tgz --generate-name 
   ```

1. Confirm that all of the pods are running with the following command.

   ```

>    watch kubectl get pods -n calico-system

Reviewer 2: We probably want to use the same command we use to monitor operator installs which is  `watch kubectl get tigerastatus`. However i do notice that we don't mention that in our OS docs yet.

Author: Yeah, I deliberately copied this from the Quickstart.  Happy to change this if that's more correct however.
